hey guys what's up so in this video I
want to talk about coding interviews and
just kind of give my experience on the
different interviews I've had also I
want to show you my guitar I was playing
the guitar last night and it's kind of
weird their song I was playing it was
the zombie song cranberries and like
it's weird because like I found out
today that the lead singer died so it
was like the first time I ever tried to
play that song I'm playing oh my god
it's easy song to play and everything
and then I find out like the lead singer
died so it's kind of a kind of strange
but I thought I'd share that with you
guys
so with coding interviews like a lot of
you guys are trying to figure out like
what you need to practice to be able to
get the job and and it's really her hit
or miss with my experience so I've
interviewed with a lot of different
companies government contractors like
raytheon-sarcos is where you have to go
in dressed up like usually in a suit or
tie or at least nice clothes and I'm
have to start trying to you know crunch
numbers and think of logic inside of
your head in front of a roomful of
people those skills don't really
transfer in my opinion so I've actually
bombed interviews where I've had to come
up with certain algorithms and things
like that
in fact one I just like within like five
minutes of getting there I was just like
I didn't even want the job anyway and
like the traffic sucked out I was trying
to get up to the interview and like it
just it wasn't gonna work and I just
wasn't feeling it you know and uh but
that interview was was I mean like I the
information they were asking me to do
probably wasn't a big deal but I
remember one of the things at the time
was they were interested in and react
and one of the things that react had
done and the project was this is
recently when when he f6 had come out so
a couple years ago and the examples that
they had on the interview we're all
using you know es6 were which was using
you know class you know react
the extenze component or whatever the
hell it was but back in the old days we
didn't instantiate breyana components
with using classes and things like that
keyword or the class keyword but anyway
I went into the center of you just you
know it'll prepared for that for you
know the coding questions they
were asking me and stuff like that and I
didn't actually expect that to happen so
definitely make sure you're brushing up
on your your dumbass algorithms but more
important than that is just make sure
you're getting enough sleep and then
you're not going in like stressed out or
with a negative mindset because that
certainly just won't help and I think
honestly for that particular interview
between the traffic driving all the way
up there just not knowing that like it
wasn't gonna work out and then they also
did some on me too leading up
to the interview where I was just like I
started doubting like basically where
they started promising the world try to
bring you in all of a sudden it's like
they're trying to change it change
things around I've seen so we can only
offer you you know we're offering you
ten thousand dollars less because of
this and that and all this so
that whole interview actually sucked
real bad but I've also worked the
companies like like I interview with
with Raytheon one time and the job at
Raytheon was for cybersecurity and
Django and they didn't actually ask any
programming questions like they didn't
have research on my background to see
some of the Django projects like they
saw some of the Django contribute on
Tribune's I had made on github and
things like that so they had already
done their due diligence there so they
were mainly asking me about
cybersecurity about why I'm interested
in working there like about the commute
because the commute was really far for
me so they're not trying to hire me and
knowing that I'm gonna you know balance
in like six months because the commute
is terrible
and they've seen all that so a lot of
companies are more interested in that
like if they already know that you're a
senior dev like they're not gonna
around with a bunch of stupid algorithms
and stuff
now with that now certain companies like
they probably do expect and they want to
have like genius level programmers you
know just people that eat and breathe
JavaScript stuff like that so depending
if it's a job is for job but like my
buddy who had that interview in Richmond
like they're asking like all these
crazy-ass questions that have to do
with a lot with you know closures and
things like that and variable hoisting
in JavaScript so they're trying to catch
people on that but that was like a
multiple-choice quiz so I think that's a
little bit more acceptable than trying
to whiteboard something out I also was
reading from a guy that worked at Google
and it was on it was on Quora actually
but this guy was apparently one of the
worst developers at Google for like 2013
through 2015 and he said that he was
able to get the job of basically like
fabricating all of his projects on his
resume and things like that to the point
of making him sound like much more
sophisticated than really were and then
also studied his ass off on like a lot
of like just logic and like you know
fizzbuzz type of challenges that a lot
of companies will do to try to test
their associates and that's one thing
I've always mentioned it's like people
are trying to find you know creative
fingers people that think outside the
box but then they use the same
like they'll go to Google and be like
okay what sort of programming quiz
should I give this because
I don't know you know I mean it's like
well if you don't know you're probably
not a good enough person to interview
the guy probably you know what I mean
like or if you can't come up with your
own coding question or something that's
relatively like you know that has any
sort that makes any sort of sense
whatsoever it's like if you can't do
that then I don't know man like it's
just stupid you know what I mean
it's just stupid if you're gonna look
online to find suggestions from other
smart developers who hire you know good
talents of it it's all just opinionated
stuff but anyway Scott Meyers from the
C++ community one of the best C++
developers he always spoke out against
the whole coding coding whiteboard stuff
in job interviews because it just he
said it's a skill set that just doesn't
apply day to day like how many times
have you gone into work as a dev and
whether you're junior or senior whatever
and like your job was to whiteboard some
sort of coding solution like I can tell
you personally I that's never happened
to me oh my god we've done some
whiteboard but it's usually
like some high level you you UML
diagrams or something but you know our
POC s I mean like we're going to be
using our own computer workstations and
things
we're not gonna be trying to figure out
the best way to iterate some sort of
like data set or something like that
you just don't do that on a whiteboard
probably like it's just not it's not
it's not the place for it so Scott Mars
is right now about his name right I
think that's his name but anyway he's
right all that you know so but but
beyond that like you will find companies
that are going to do that and if you
look on Glassdoor you're going to find
that they're the ones that will that
will ask questions and the questions can
be a bitch to because they'll actually
questions but I feel like questions are
a much greater way of figuring out the
depth of somebody's intellect I mean
because you're simply just not going to
know the answer to all these different
questions without experience I mean so
like basically like like Dom selectors
are like you know even with you know
call and bind with in JavaScript or what
is you strict for even though now we
have es6 or what the point is that you
ask simple questions like that you're
gonna quickly know whether or not
somebody has program in their life you
know and if you're not looking for
somebody who literally is some nerd who
has no life and like is probably going
to burn out on you eventually like
you're probably you're probably going to
be just fine asking pertinent questions
to the languages and technologies that
you're using figuring out whether or not
these people can answer them with any
sort of intellect and if they can't it
probably means that they have experience
and if they have experience it probably
means that they're you know at least
fairly decent fairly fairly decent
developer especially if they've been
able to you know show a track record a
history of working for you know IT
corner corporations especially for
multiple years like you can't
for more than like probably three years
you know I would say that would be the
max so if somebody's been able to work
as a developer for a place for more than
three years like there's no question in
my mind like you probably are a fairly
decent programmer probably now there's
always that chance that you could have a
you know some some guy who was able to
do a girl that was able to completely
fake their way through with it but the
chances are I think are much less likely
in that case so with this Google guy
though he was apparently
he was able to get into Google he
searched all these algorithms and and
programming questions and things like
that was able to nail that the
complicated interview process at Google
as soon as he got there like they they
just couldn't fight they couldn't play
summon any sort of job that he was able
or competent enough to handle and uh and
they ended up getting rid of him he said
for what they described like loosely as
like general incompetence or whatever
but you know that dude set man because
you worked at Google it doesn't matter
if you're the shittiest person at Google
I mean if you have Google on your resume
like you're you're golden so anyway the
thing is you will run into situations
where they're asking you questions which
I prefer and then there's the other
types of interviews will to ask you to
submit actual coding projects and if you
guys watch a video that I talked about
Android programming job that I went to
one time where for like three weeks or a
month or something like that I was
working on an Android app in my spare
time so I work all day have a wife and
kids go home was learning how to be a
Java developer barely knew Java or
Android but started developing this
Android app and it was for medical bills
and viewing medical bills and things
like that it was a fairly basic app but
the thing worked and then I went into
the interview and these
didn't even look at it like they'd even
look at they were basically like they
already had their candidate in mind then
we were basically thanking me for coming
in and all this and like trying to
give me suggestions on what to do it's
like mother could have given me
a phone call
before I Drive all the way up to DC and
anyway but that's fine experiences like
that you know they notch this chip on my
shoulder a little bit deeper so I just
further defines Who I am a guy that just
doesn't like people I'm just kidding no
idea that that interview was I
got mistreated there but honestly though
those experiences will actually help you
so I really do I do think that I've been
I mean I'm a stronger person because of
that experience but so yeah you'll find
coding interviews what they want you to
do a project code I think those are also
a good gauge because they'll actually be
able to see code that you wrote
and I can think I see the full package
so did you write unit tests and things
like that did you write clean code are
you following best practices stuff like
that so they can clearly figure that out
pretty quickly for projects like that so
then you know so my number one thing
would be just you know simply asking
questions let's save the time and all
that stuff if you want to look at my
private projects look on github or my my
youtube channel whatever it is or
whatever you guys have for you know for
your own portfolios like how people
check that out hopefully that's good
enough if it's not you know then yeah
maybe a side project and then if you're
really gonna be an asshole go ahead and
start making them do fizzbuzz and all
this other dumb that kids out of
college will probably Excel that more
than senior devs but they won't excel
when it comes to actually writing code
that the other company needs to survive
alright guys thanks for watching have a
good day right so this video was brought
to you by a dev Mountain coding bootcamp
they're a boot camp that is based out of
Utah but they're also in Texas in
Arizona now and they have very good
reviews so make sure you guys check them
out the link is in the description tab
below they offer courses in web
development iOS development UX or user
experience design Quality Assurance and
just a few other ones the fact they're
even getting into Salesforce as well now
so they're continuing to adapt their
courses based on what the market needs
are and major companies are hiring some
of their alumni so make sure you guys
give them a look they have great reviews
and thanks for watching bye